+++
author = "Hugo Authors"
title = "My Journey into Security (So Far)"
date = "2020-06-05"
description = "A short overview of my personal journey into Security."
+++

One thing that really resonates with me is how every person in Security has had a nonlinear, diverse path into the profession. Honestly if a manager told me he used to be in the circus and now he is in Security, I wouldn't even question it! Below I've detailed an overview of my journey into Security from a liberal arts college in Florida to an innovative start up.

I started at [Rollins College](https://www.rollins.edu/) intending to major in Business and take some History courses, a long time passion of mine. Quickly I discovered that I couldn't relate to the Business courses but loved the History department. Major Change #1. In an effort to make money during college, I applied to every work-study position open. The first person to give me an interview became my first mentor and I went on to work for him in the university's PCI Compliance Office. Doesn't sound very glamorous, right? I learned about managing financial systems, calculating risk, network segmentation, and a variety of other topics. Realizing that this path could be really interesting, I decided to see where it could take me. I added the Computer Science major in an effort to gain some background in what I was working in. Major Change #2 (the second among many to come).

Like many young women in technology, the first turning point in my career was at the coveted [Grace Hopper Celebration](https://ghc.anitab.org/). The convention was occurring only twenty minutes from my college and I learned about it the weekend prior. Unable to get a ticket, which are *incredibly* expensive, my childhood neighbor offered to get me in.  I didn't really question it. So that's how I ended up the next morning in the loading docks of the Orlando Convention Center, sneaking into the Grace Hopper Celebration. Without a badge, I was confined to the Career Fair where I told recruiters I accidentally spilt water on my badge. I spent the day walking up and down the aisles asking if any company was hiring security interns. That's how I discovered [Palo Alto Networks](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/) where I later interviewed for a position in their Information Security department. Securing the internship, I planned to join them the summer between my sophomore and junior year in Santa Clara, CA.

There's no way to explain how life-changing going to the Bay Area is for a young women in tech, especially one who grew up in a rural area. The culture, the people, the food, the workspaces, the projects... everything was different from what I've seen before. I felt like I finally began understanding my field and that it was definitely something I wanted to be apart of. The summer I interned at Palo Alto Networks I attended every meetup, conference, and workshop I could to  learn, network, and actively join the industry.

Towards the end of the summer, I began attending some all female hiking meetups and that led to the second turning point of my career. I met a woman who worked at [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/), my future company. She spoke of the innovation, transparency, and ethics at the company; later, I was connected with the small but mighty Cloudflare Security Team. However, I was still skeptical because I *knew* I wanted to be in the Washington D.C. area for the summer in order to get experience and exposure on the *other* coast. I spent my entire fall semester, in which I was living amnd studying in Ireland, interviewing to find the best fit for me. The more I looked into Cloudflare, the more I was intrigued and then finally, I applied. The company's values of hiring smart, curious, diverse people to build a better Internet through collaboration and transparency really spoke to me. Then when I interviewed with the Security Team, their own vision and values were *exactly* what I was looking for. They were currently building out new teams from scratch and I asked to join the Detection and Response Team. Despite it not having a single team member, I was promised it would exist by the time I started the following June. I suppose I could say the rest is history!

Security, in my belief, is an interdisciplinary topic that weaves complex situations together whether digital, physical, or purely theoretical ethics. In a way I would have never expected, my love for history continuously allows me to understand and analyze complex issues whether they are "big picture" or a database of logs. Finding patterns and correlating results come natural to me. I find explaining the reasoning behind my findings and the subsequent documentation equally enjoyable.

This post provides some brief insight into my adventures on becoming a full time Security Engineer; however, my Security career is just starting and I anticipate many twists and turns in the future.
